Short Essay # 2
Patrick Beam
Business Ethics Online
                Dear Venezuelan Regional Council,
                We at Mongoose Tom’s Maniacal Mining Company are sympathetic to your reticence regarding our forthcoming mine opening, and wish to address some of your concerns regarding private property. We can appreciate your caution in following the political evolution of your national government towards this idea.
                Fundamentally we believe that all persons possess value and dignity regardless of social and economic rank. As a corollary to this idea, we believe that all persons own themselves, that they can (and are!) held accountable for their actions, and as such the ownership of the self by the self extends into a person’s actions. From this position it naturally follows that one owns one’s labor—your excellent work in defending the rights and livelihood of the worker seems to speak to this. Take for example, the act of picking some fruit from a tree—in doing so one mixes one’s labor, an owned property, with the apple, taking ownership thereof. As a point of clarification, the tree in our example is not one claimed by others, and is not protected or regulated by the state. A problem arises when one picks many pieces of fruit, in that much of it will spoil before one person can use it as food. To avoid having the fruit go to waste, and thus depriving someone else of an object of value, one might trade the excess fruit for cheese or wine, or sell it for currency. This is the basis of our belief at MTMMC in private property.
                The business of mining copper from the ground is analogous to that of the fruit. Now, no one person can usefully extract copper, and as such our workers (many of whom will be hired from your villages ) will be compensated for their labor with money. Though you might have organized your state resources to gather copper from the ground, you have not done so, and we posit that you have better served the people as such. The state exists to protect life, liberty, and property from coercion, deception, and exploitation—and you have done a marvelous job with these objectives! It is clear, however, that an enterprise does not serve well two masters: the people’s enjoyment of the right action of the state pursuant to its objectives will certainly suffer if the state engages in mining copper, a thing you are neither trained nor equipped to do.
                We recognize fully that the right to own and profit from our mining operations is not a license to do whatever we please with the persons involved in them. You’ll note in the agreement signed with the national government that many reasonable and prudent protections have been agreed to in order to protect the your people, and the your home, ensuring just compensation and safety. That said, going back to the fruit, we posit that forcing the picker to give fruit to someone wholly uninvolved in the fruit, tree, or land violates the picker’s self-ownership and constitutes theft. Which we note is a category of punishable offenses in your region.
                We have been asked by your council what gives us the right to take and profit from this copper—at the expense of the people who cannot mine what we do afterwards. Beyond having lawfully purchased the rights to these resources from the state for a princely sum (which, in turn will help the people in this country), we encourage you to think about this: If there is one, unclaimed bottle of Presidente found on a table by someone walking through the area, it is certainly true that should the person drink the beer, another person will be unable to do so. This goes without question. That said it is not immoral to drink it. Whoever brought it there abandoned it, and if it is no consumed the heat will ruin it and no one will be able to enjoy it. The people have had the opportunity to mine this copper for many decades now, and no one has done so. We are doing no injury to the common good by mining, and profiting from, this copper—on the contrary, the people of your region will flourish because of it.
                Regards,
                Mongoose Tom, President and CEO & The Board of Directors
                Mongoose Tom’s Maniacal Mining Company
 
 
Note: I am testing a theory here by highlighting transitions and flow statements in the spirit of the ones given in your template document, as opposed to forcing them into my letter and disrupting the flow of the writing. If this does not meet your standards, I’ll soon find out and can more organically plan to include yours in future essays J Pat.
